# Anyone Can Bartend!

This is an educational game aimed at middle schoolers (or perhaps precocious
preschoolers) who wish to become skilled in the noble art of bartending.  You
will learn the recipes of many basic drinks (duos and trios for now, but future
versions will include the entire cocktail list of the International Bartenders
Association) and the importance of efficiency.

This is still an alpha version, missing many skills critical to true bartenders,
most notably the use of ice and its accoutrements: shaking, stirring, and
straining.


## Mechanics

The main resource in the game is time.  For simplicity, bottles are bottomless.
The challenge comes from time management - orders must be fullfilled within one
minute to get satisfactory marks, and within thirty seconds to earn a gold star.
In order to meet these deadlines, the player must develop real-world bartending
skills: the ability to mix drinks without referencing a recipe and the ability
to judge volume by timing.

Additionally, as more recipes become available they will begin to cover up
older recipes.  In order to fulfill orders for the older drinks, the player must
have them committed to memory.


## Challenges

The biggest challenge I had when making this game was (much like within the game
itself) time management.  I got my previous game idea - which involved planet
facts and orbital mechanics - prototyped out three days before the deadline, and
then realized it was simpy not fun to play.  So I scrapped it.

The game as it exists now was created in four days - the two I had remaining and
two more I was able to negotiate for.  The toughest part, then, was figuring out
what I could do in those four days and prioritizing it.

I think I was able to get a cohesive set of features running before my demo, but
even then my prioritization wasn't perfect.  I spent quite a bit of time on some
mixers that never appeared (fruit juices, mostly).  And there's still no ice,
which I did really want to have in the game.


## Assets

All assets were created by me, by hand, in a program called Patina - the closest
thing I could find to Microsoft Paint for OSX.  Yes, they appear to have been
drawn by a psychopathic third grader.  This is good.

I was originally going to create sound effects by clanking bottles around, but
ran out of time.  I may yet...
